# Moving Forward
###### Posted March 16th, 2024

Another week has passed! We've covered the basics of HTML and CSS, a lot of which I already knew, and a fair amount I didn't! This is the first time I've really gotten to play around with it in any guided capacity though, so that was very nice! I wish I had known about the MDN docs before, as I probably would've done a lot of this on my own time well before this point had I been aware of them.

Ah well, onto the questions.

##What is something you wish you could do but currently do not have the coding skills to accomplish?
Good question! I'm not really sure. Probably build an entire website for my video game (mostly) from scratch, or make improvements to the phpBB forum that I help operate. I don't have enough web development knowledge to be able to confidently do anything like that yet, which sucks!

##What are you struggling with?
Getting things to work right when I don't already have extensive knowledge of how exactly they work under the hood. :/

That is the eternal struggle of being a developer, though. We're so abstracted from the actual 0s and 1s that make computers operate that we kinda have to rely on everyone else doing their jobs and having things work the way they say they should.

Unfortunately, most documentation leaves something to be desired.

##How do you solve a problem? 
I find any relevant reading that I can (in a programming context: documentation) and get to it. Once I have a good understanding of my problem, I go about fixing it using the guidance of whatever I was reading and my own skills/intuition.

##What methods do you use to help yourself get unstuck?
I take a moment to breathe, and talk the problem out with someone else. Usually my cat. She's a very good listener, and also won't stop trying to climb onto my laptop as I'm writing this. She wants to help, but alas, she's not very good at writing.
