# On The Importance of Pseudocode
###### Posted April 20th, 2024

## What the heck is pseudocode?

"Pseudocode" is a term often used by programmers to refer to "code" that is in fact not code ("pseudo" literally means "fake"!), but rather a plain explanation of what a program is ideally supposed to do, starting with its input, describing the actions it should take with that input, and then ending with its desired output. It is an approximation/conceptualization rather than anything a computer actually knows what to do with. To a layman or an inexperienced developer, it might seem like a waste of time. Why bother writing fake code when you could write real code that actually does something instead?

Well, the answer is that coding is hard. Computers do not think the way that humans do, and they will only do exactly what you tell them to do, in the order you tell them to do it. Nothing is assumed or taken for granted by a machine - it just is. Writing something a computer understands is always a puzzle, and if you don't have something to guide you through the process, then you're likely to get lost in the weeds and forget where you're even going with all this.

That's where pseudocode comes in.

## Okay, how does it help?

Pseudocode lets you sit down and plan out exactly what you're going to do and how you're going to do it, in a language that you intuitively understand (aka, not the way computers think). By writing pseudocode first, before you write a single line of actual code, you already have your blueprint for what you want the computer to do. Thus, when you sit down to actually translate your psuedocode into machine-speak, you don't need to do any extra thinking, you ONLY have to transcribe and test your solution. No missing the forest for the trees. You have your guiding light, so all you need to do is follow it.

## So... how should you write it?

Depends on what makes sense to you. That's the beauty of pseudocode! There's no strict standard for how best to write it, as it is meant solely to help make the confusing inner workings of a machine make sense to *you*. That said, here's how **I** write pseudocode, and thus how you might write it too:

First, I start by writing out my expected input and output. What does this piece of code take in, and what is it supposed to spit back out? Input is our initial values, whatever we're supposed to act on. Local or global, code always acts on some piece of information. Meanwhile, our output could be an actual return value, or it could be alterations made to whatever the end-user sees. Either way, it's doing *something*, otherwise it's just a waste of your time and the computer's clock cycles.

Second, I figure out the way to turn my input into my desired output, step by step. Whatever information the computer needs to take from the input, it takes. Whatever it needs to act on with that information, it does. Then, whatever preparations it needs to make for its output, it makes. Then, it spits the output back out, ideally how you expect. And that's it!

Okay I know that sounds a little vague, but that's the nature of the beast! Pseudocode can apply to *any* problem you can imagine a computer solving (not the Halting Problem, sorry), so its applications are as vast as they come. You do have to figure a lot of it out on your own, but it gets easier and more intuitive the more you do it.

Most importantly, doing it will make you a better, faster programmer, and that's why pseudocode is so important.